You're going to sleep
with mama tonight,
okay?
- Mama?
- Uh-huh?
- It's dark.
- Shh.
It's gonna be okay.
Know why?
'Cause mama says so?
Yeah, 'cause
mama says so.
Mama?
Uh-huh?
He's not coming
back, right?
No, he's not.
Now, go to
sleep.
- Mama?
- What, Toya?
You don't gotta
cry no more.
Kid dies on impact.
Mother survives only
to lapse into a coma
a few hours
after the attack.
Going on two years.
Two years in a coma?
Just saw your boy Kite
at the courthouse.
ADA Kite?
Mm-hmm.
That was, uh,
Billy Markins' job, right?
Yeah, 33 years on,
then this hummer comes
in.
They never got the doer.
Dead kid and her mom
thrown out a window.
How old's the job?
2001?
He asked about you.
Kite.
Yo, pass the ketchup?
Remember that picture
Markins had on his wall?
Yeah. Mom and a kid
making a snowman.
- That's the job?
- Yeah.
The only case he left open
when he retired.
What, so the assigned
worked it good
but got nada for his efforts?
His only
witness
was in a coma.
Mm.
What did he ask?
Kite.
Where you were.
You getting a social life
going or something?
No way.
Good. This Miles case
has new direction.
Yeah?
Why are we interested now?
Because the mom just woke up.
How long has she been awake?
- Eighteen hours.
- She talking?
'She has lucid but minimal
verbal function.'
'She hasn't spoken
of the incident'
'with her daughter yet.'
Some people here
to see you, Ms. Miles.
Hi, Rosie.
I'm Detective Rush.
Detective Valens.
'How you doing?'
Rosie...we're here to talk
to you about what happened.
- 'To you and Toya.'
- 'Your little girl?'
- Toya.
- 'Toya.'
- Is that what you're saying?
- Butterflies.
Toya and...and-and butterflies.
They hurt.
They hurt. They hurt, mama.
Bruises on her.
Toya had butterfly wings
and-and bruises?
On her arms.
And...he-he bruised her up.
- Who did?
- The man.
What man, Rosie?
The one in, uh,
the one in the bedroom.
He would put bruises on her..
...when she wouldn't smile
at him.
Did you know him
before that night?
What night?
The night Toya..
...the night
of the accident, Rosie.
What accident?
- Doesn't she know?
- I, uh...I'm not sure.
Know what?
What am I supposed to know?
So bruises
and butterflies?
That's all Rosie
remembers right now.
Long-term memory's intact.
But whatever went on
that night..
Gone. She didn't
even know Toya was dead.
Gone forever?
If she gets it back,
it'll come piecemeal.
Doctor says this type
of amnesia's emotional
not physical,
so she should remember.
The question is
does she want to?
(Rush)
'Yeah.'
Rosie said the man
in the bedroom
bruised up Toya
when she wouldn't smile.
Implying they knew him.
Yeah, but the assigned
thought
the doer was a stranger.
You trade thoughts
with Markins yet?
Caught up with him between
tea times in Myrtle Beach.
'His theory was
a burglary gone bad.'
The doer's on crack, PCP,
breaks into the apartment
'not expecting
Rosie to wake up.'
She does, he panics,
and kills them both.
911 call came in at 11:16 p.m.
few minutes after Rosie and
Toya
hit the ground.
Voice was a black male,
never ID'ed.
Plus Rosie's landlady reported
a black male
running from the scene.
(Stillman)
'Black man hauling ass'
through lily-white
Port Richmond?
Stands out
like Vera in a bikini.
Well, theory's decent, forced
entry, struggle in the
bedroom..
...missing VCR.
I don't know
what the butterflies mean.
And I don't see
any bruises on Toya.
Well, you find the man
in the bedroom
I bet you'll get some answers.
Case number 3579.
I was Rosie Miles'
court-ordered supervisor
'for, uh...for ten months.'
Court ordered, Mr. Freely?
Yeah, Rosie got a DUI
three years ago.
'The judge didn't take
the kid away'
'but he assigned me
to be her caseworker.'
Rosie have a drinking problem?
Pregnant at 17, dad's MIA
before her baby's born.
'When she realizes all she's
got
to look forward to in life'
is Pampers
and stretch marks
she finds God
at the bottom of a 40.
- She ever hit Toya?
- No.
Ever notice any bruises?
Never. No, the court would have
taken her away if she did.
That's why
I was there for.
You were at Rosie's apartment
the day of the murder, right?
Yeah, we call them
unannounced home visits.
Rosie's snoring,
TV's blasting
kid's eating Ho Ho's
for breakfast, the usual.
But you said
in your report
that everything
was satisfactory.
According to department
guidelines, it was.
Did she have a boyfriend,
might've hurt Toya?
I don't think Rosie
liked men all that much.
- That a fact?
- I don't mean gay.
Just, uh...most of these girls..
...uh, will give it up for
a Big Mac and supersize fries.
Hmm.
But Rosie..
...it was like she just
shut that door forever.
Toya loved to draw.
I never had the heart
to throw them away.
You saw Toya and her mother
the day of the murder
at a school play?
Yes. We do that
play every year
"The Flight Of
The Monarch Butterflies."
The play was about butterflies?
(female #1)
'It was, yes.'
Can you tell us what you
remember from that day?
Toya remembered all her lines.
She was the only one.
Why was Rosie crying?
I don't know.
Did you ever see any marks
on Toya's arms Mrs.
Jablonski?
Bruises?
Signs of abuse?
No. We're trained
to look for those things.
That's not something
you forget, detective.
Two years is a long time
to remember.
Toya always came to school
with a lunch.
Clean clothes.
She was a happy child.
Loved.
That's not something
you forget either..
...not around here.
(Rush)
'So this is the bedroom
where the murder took place?'
Yup.
No renter since Rosie.
Except my brother.
Comes from Poland, stays here.
[dogs barking]
God. Shut up, damn dogs.
Be quiet!
Hate those dogs.
That wasn't
in the crime scene photos.
(Valens)
'Maybe a cable line.'
Too big.
And too high up.
What happened to the bookshelf
'that was against this wall,
Tammy?'
Oh. My place.
- Oh, yeah?
- 'Yeah.'
I keep it for Rosie.
So what?
Ever see any bruises
on Toya?
Bruises?
No, no,
no.
Rosie never
touch that girl.
Never. Never.
Uh-uh.
Maybe one of her boyfriends did.
Says here,
you saw someone running
from the building
that night.
Yeah. Black.
He run and run and run--
(Valens)
'Maybe he was
her boyfriend.'
[laughs]
Right. When pigs fly.
Rosie got a problem
with black men?
No, I got a problem.
My building, my rules.
Okay? Men at Rosie's that
night?
Yes.
Black
No.
Men at Rosie's?
What night?
The night Toya falls.
[spits]
I hear men voices.
- The night she died?
- 'Yeah.'
'In and out,
climb up, down the stairs.'
You didn't mention that
two years ago.
I see black run.
I told about black.
Black did it.
You see men come up
in this place a lot, Tammy?
'No.'
But one bedroom apartment,
come on.
Toya sleeps on the couch.
I think.
Wait, Rosie made her kid
sleep in the living room?
So Rosie keep the bedroom
for herself for a reason, no?
But I don't make judgment.
'Like you are.'
Like now.
We got a uniform
posted at the hospital?
Yeah.
No visitors for Rosie yet.
- No family?
- Mm-hm. Parents are dead.
This job ain't coming in, boss.
- We got nothing.
- 'We got a witness.'
Whose hard drive's been erased.
"Bruises and butterflies,"
that's her big contribution.
Well, it's more
than Markins had.
How do we know
we can trust it?
The bruises didn't pan out.
Well, the butterflies
meant something.
'Keep looking
at the bruises.'
CSU figured out
the hole in the wall.
Rosie's living room.
The missing VCR
went on top of the TV.
Okay, living room again.
Missing VCR cables
must have run through this
hole
'leaving these
tiny black streaks.'
CSU says it's the same rubber
used in VCR cables.
So the cable from the VCR in
the
living room connected to what?
Something in the bedroom.
I don't see anything it
could
have been connected to.
Maybe because it was hidden.
What do you connect
a VCR to if not a TV?
A video camera.
Why did Rosie have
a video camera in her bedroom?
Was she making porn?
Blackmailing someone?
Doer's married,
having a fling.
Rosie threatens
to tell the wife.
Except Rosie's bank account
totaled a whopping
$121 and 15 cents,
that spell extortion to you?
On public assistance
you can't have more than
a few hundred bucks in the bank.
Well, that makes saving easy.
Welcome to welfare.
If Rosie was squirreling away
a stash
she'd have to hide it real
good
or lose the food stamps.
Check her belongings
for video tapes.
You and Vera try pawnshops
in Port Richmond
for the camera and VCR.
If we find the tape,
maybe we find the doer.
Oh. Real nice of Tammy
to let us in.
Hmm. Real nice of her
to keep Rosie's furniture.
How come
you don't like
Rosie?
I like her fine.
'Cause she got a DUI?
With Toya in the car.
Well, she shaped
up
after that.
Paid the price.
Only one that paid
was her kid, Scotty.
Yeah, well..
I think Rosie paid, too.
Look what I found.
Blank pages,
all of them.
So?
Wonder why this page
is missing?
As luck would have it
we purchased this model
six months ago.
What's it do?
Clarifies residuum
otherwise imperceptible
to the naked eye.
Talk down to me.
It sees the imprint
from your missing page.
It's the high-tech version of
rubbing a pencil against a
pad.
Like that, yeah.
Hope you got gloves,
it's freezing out there.
Hmm. Any luck
in the pawn shops?
Yeah, we tracked
a VCR and camera
same make and model as Rosie's.
Pete's pawnshop
in Port Richmond.
- Huh.
- Rosie's hood.
Guy dumped it
almost a year after the
murder.
Heat was off by then.
Petey's got a slip
for a guy named Angel.
- No last name.
- Angel?
- Yeah. Could be a dead end.
- Or not.
Traced a missing page
from Rosie's address book.
Disconnected pager number
for an Angel Rivera.
Janitor at
Toya's school.
(Valens)
'Angel Rivera?'
Detectives Rush,
Valens.
Homicide.
You know a Rosie Miles, Angel?
A who?
Wonder why she'd have
his pager number?
He not knowing
her and all.
- Maybe 'cause he's lying?
- Huh.
Yeah. Whatever.
So who's Jasmine Cordoba?
- What's she got to do with it?
- That your girlfriend, Angel?
Hear she pays your rent,
utilities, your car.
You make your woman
pay the bills?
Must be packing
some kind of punch
in those baggies, huh, Angel?
You wanna find out?
Make a move.
'Cept Jasmine
ain't his girlfriend.
- No?
- 'Nah.'
- She's his mama.
- Ooh.
She do your laundry, too?
papi?
Help you make number two
on the potty?
I live with my ma, so what?
Your mother's here
illegally.
We ain't gonna let
immigration know.
You help us out.
Me and Rosie, a few times.
- 'It wasn't nothing.'
- She feel the same way?
She wanted this, wanted that.
"Keep an eye on my kid, Angel.
Make sure she don't fall
off the jungle gym, Angel."
I was in it
for the sumpin' sumpin'
papi.
You seeing Rosie around the
time
her kid got killed?
Nah. Kicked her
to the curb way back when.
Hooked up with Gina.
Gave old white girl the boot.
What were you doing in white
girl's apartment that night?
We got your prints
on her video camera, Angel.
You know,
the one you pawned?
That day
her kid was...whatever.
I see Rosie in the school.
At Toya's butterfly play?
Yeah. Crying and acting stupid.
Rosie was making
a phone call?
Yeah. Then she sees me,
hangs up.
She starts blubbering in my
face
about butterflies
and some guy's gonna hurt her,
blase blah.
What guy?
I don't know.
I told her to step off.
You know what I mean,
not my problem.
Rosie freaks.
She starts shouting, screaming
how she's got some tape,
us in bed.
If I don't help her, she's
gonna tell Gina, blase blah.
- Pissed you off, huh?
- Hell, yeah.
(Rush)
'So you went over there
that night'
'and taught her
a lesson, right?'
Hell, yeah.
- Mommy!
- Angel. Jesus.
Get out of here!
What are you doing?
- 'Mommy!'
- You're scaring Toya!
'Angel, get out of here!'
(Toya)
'Mommy!'
You gonna get me, bitch?
Don't you hurt my mama!
I'm gonna call the cops, Angel!
No! No! Not that tape.
[screams]
Not that!
Don't take that.
Mommy!
[screams]
Not that!
And then I left.
Truth is, I didn't care
enough
to kill them.
Cared enough to hit her.
I didn't hit her.
I pushed her.
- Out the window?
- I didn't do nothing!
I got the tape to prove it.
- What tape?
- Tape from that night.
I ain't on it.
So that's proof
I didn't do nothin'.
Nothing but pawn her VCR
and camera a year later.
Where's this tape
you got, Angel?
This was recorded
in your apartment, Rosie.
It's a security camera.
(Rosie)
'Who's that man?'
That's what we were hoping
you'd tell us.
I don't know.
You remember
this camera, Rosie?
You had it in your bedroom.
I did?
[sighs]
You remember someone
named Angel?
You told him someone was out
to hurt you.
'You asked Angel
for help that day.'
If I don't remember who he is
how am I gonna remember
what I said to him?
We're trying to help, Rosie.
What for?
So you can get
your memory back.
Like I said...what for?
(Valens)
'Let's go.'
It's not mine.
It's hers.
It's Toya's.
What's Toya's?
The bedroom.
It's Toya's bedroom.
I remember that now.
Why does Rosie put
a security camera
in her daughter's bedroom?
Worried something's happening
to Toya there.
Nothin' in the autopsy report
says anything
about sexual abuse.
Well, maybe it was
just starting.
And that's why
the camera.
Rosie knew
what he was doing.
She was trying
to stop him.
And maybe
he's trying to stop her
'from ratting
him out.'
Ten Gs buys a lot of
"Don't ask, don't tell."
I found a bank account
'under Rosie's social
security
number and her name.'
The assigned
missed that?
Didn't exist
till three days ago.
When Rosie woke up.
Who set up the account?
McLean Wyowski.
Foreman,
Mills Lightman Construction.
'No record.'
What's his connection to Rosie?
Wife's maiden name, Miles.
Lorraine Miles.
He's Rosie's dad.
So Rosie tells you
her folks died
and you don't check that out?
With the number of cases I
got,
it comes down to triage.
You keep a roof
over their heads.
You keep the food stamps coming.
So where do we look for
suspected physical
sexual abuse, huh?
Hospital admissions
uh, foster care reports.
All the miscellaneous stuff
we didn't get to.
This
cabinet,
Mr. Freely?
All of this.
There are only
so many hours in the day.
And so many kids.
Yeah, how do we find Toya
in all of this?
M...for Miles.
Familiar territory?
[sighs]
Yeah.
Yeah, you knew that food
stamp drill pretty good.
Case number 4228.
Ellen Rush, two dependents.
Valens.
Who, McLean?
You bringing him in?
Good.
Jeffries and Vera just picked
up
Rosie's dad at the shipyard.
What do you got?
M for Miles.
That's why Rosie
saw the bruises.
That picture
don't look like Toya.
It's not.
It's Rosie.
When was the last time you saw
your daughter, McLean?
Five, six years.
Lost track.
And you never visited Rosie
all the time
she was in the hospital?
Then why'd you set up
an account for her?
You not givin'
a crap and all?
I'm her pops.
I wanted to help her.
Or shut her up.
You know how
Toya died?
Backbone busted to bits.
'Skull, too.'
'Oh, no open casket for her.'
Violent guy who'd do
something like that, huh?
I wouldn't know.
Hit me.
Show me what you did to
Rosie
when she was a little girl.
Come on.
You like hittin' girls.
'Hit me.'
Gonorrhea when she was eight.
Again when she was ten.
You did a lot more than
just hit Rosie, didn't
you?
Rosie made a call
at the school that
day.
We traced it
to the shipyard, to you.
What'd she call you about?
Talkin' crazy,
like she was drunk.
Goin' on about butterflies.
And that someone was gonna
hurt Toya, right?
So you went there that night.
No. I-I went home.
Tell them you went home.
'After Rosie called,
begging for help.'
- I did.
- Don't look at me.
'Look at them.'
'You tell Toya.'
Tell Rosie.
You tell them, not me.
I-I-I sat outside her place
in the dark.
And I-I didn't go there
'cause I thought
she was in trouble.
Then why'd you go?
To tell her I was sorry.
For when she was little..
...for what I'd done.
I sat outside her place,
but I couldn't go in.
(Rush)
'So you saw some
pizza delivery guy'
go up to Rosie's place.
What'd this guy look like?
Young guy.
Black guy.
(Rush)
'Did a black man come
over that night, Rosie'
maybe...delivering a pizza?
Maybe you were seeing him?
How 'bout this, uh,
ponytail guy? Hmm?
You starting
to recognize him?
(Rush)
'Maybe you met him
at a bar...a club?'
That wasn't me.
What you're saying?
That wasn't how it was.
Then tell us, Rosie.
How it was.
Uh, Toya..
...loved her...her
butterfly wind chimes.
I put 'em up in
a window...for her.
Then he'd come
at night
'late at night.'
Who would?
The man who gave Toya
the wind chimes.
(Valens)
They ain't optimistic 'bout
getting prints
'off of them chimes.'
- I know.
- Well, maybe we'd get lucky.
(Valens)
If not...well, we'll get
somethin' else tomorrow.
(Rush)
Yeah, well, maybe Rosie's
better off not knowing.
Not knowing what?
How she was with Toya.
- How they lived.
- They were doing okay.
What, on welfare,
with a DUI?
People make mistakes.
They clean up.
Your mom ever forget
to feed you
'cause she was
too drunk...or tired
or out looking for a man?
Nah.
Toya's a dime a dozen.
Unwanted kid.
Mom runs out of food stamps,
makes an excuse
why there's
no dinner tonight.
Oh, uh, no breakfast, either.
So thank God for
the free corn flakes at school
if you get there early,
and maybe some kid
will give you scraps
out of his lunch box later on.
So your mom was going
through bad times.
Scotty...there was
never a good time.
Are you telling me not once
did you have fun with your mom?
I mean, not once did you feel
some kind of love?
Maybe tomorrow
we bring Rosie home, huh?
If you can't do this..
No, I-I want to.
Mama. Mama.
She was drawing.
She was...hiding
and drawing.
(Rush)
'Why was she hiding?'
Because he's coming
from there..
(Rush)
'Rosie.'
He was standing there.
It's just Scotty.
He's not gonna
hurt you, okay?
He's not gonna hurt you.
Lil.
'Look at this.'
Found our ponytail guy.
"Frely."
Freely.
- Mr. Freely.
- The social worker.
Cut your hair.
Big improvement.
'Wanna see the rest?'
I do. Play it.
Okay. There's
nothing
on the tape.
Rosie tried that bluff on you.
- Didn't work, though, did it?
- I don't know what you're,
uh--
'Cause you hadn't
done
anything to Toya.
- Not yet.
- You were circlin', though.
- 'Movin' in.'
- 'And Rosie knew it.'
'Cause she was real
familiar
with the danger signs.
Rosie's, uh...damaged goods
if you haven't
noticed that already.
You know what bugs me?
This camera's been
in her place for weeks
'but she picks this day
to go to people for help.'
Why?
What happened on this day
that was so different?
- She caught you.
- That mornin'.
Startin' your act with Toya.
- That's crap.
- 'And she threatened you.'
I have a tape, Freely,
back the hell off.
Oh, and that pissed you off.
Who was she,
talking to you like that?
- So that night you went
back.
- No.
You used your position
to get in her home
and check out her little girl.
Knowing the power you had..
'...and Rosie
wasn't the only one.'
You were like God
to these women.
You had the power
to give, to take
and you did.
Like anyone gives a damn.
'Trailer park trash.'
Welfare queens.
Like you care
what happens to them.
(Rush)
'They care.'
Anita Jones.
'Carmen Torres.'
Dana Matthews.
'Leena Young.'
All their pretty little girls.
They're here.
'They've come here
to tell us all about'
'Mr. Freely.'
You wanna talk before they do?
Rosie, uh..
...threatened me
that morning.
But not with any tape.
Hello, little girl.
Where's your mommy?
Shower.
Mommy.
That's, uh..
...good little girls
don't yell, Toya.
Mommy says nobody
can come in here.
Well, Mr. Freely can.
'You look pretty, Toya.'
Okay.
Uh-uh.
Say..
...thank you, Mr. Freely.
(Toya)
'Thank you, Mr. Freely.'
You're a
good,
good girl.
Don't you touch her!
I know what you're doing.
I know what you are!
You been drinking? I can smell
it on your breath, Rosie.
Get out.
Get out of my house.
'Judge isn't gonna look
too kindly on that, you
know.'
Not with a DUI and all.
You know I stopped.
I told you--
I tell you!
You don't tell me!
You drunk, dumb bitch!
What?
Oh, it's, um, it's, uh..
It's a good
thing
I came here.
'Oh, this place is a wreck!
'How do you raise
a child in this filth?'
Okay.
I was wrong, Mr. Freely.
'I was wrong.'
I've made my decision.
It's time to find
a new home for Toya.
No.
I'm gonna have
to take care
of that pretty
little girl..
...all by myself.
You just wait for the knock
on the door, Rosie.
When you least expect it.
That's all I did.
And then I left.
Talk about that night, Freely.
- When you went back.
- It's, I wasn't there.
I hate a liar, man.
Something you wanna see.
No prints on the chimes,
but look at this.
(Rush)
"P. Williams?"
- Who's that?
- Philip Williams.
Sixteen
at the time of the murder.
He worked at Toya's school.
Doing arts and crafts
with the first graders.
Making wind chimes.
Doesn't mean
we got the wrong guy.
He worked as a
pizza delivery
boy.
The guy the father saw
that night, dialing 911
'running from the scene.'
Philip Williams?
'Detectives Rush, Valens.'
'Homicide.'
I was wondering
when you'd come.
You gonna arrest me
this very minute
or can I finish this play?
Why do you think
we're here to arrest you?
Murder one,
second degree murder
attempted murder, you pick.
Ends up in the same place.
Did you kill Toya, Philip?
Looks like it, doesn't it?
Then why call 911?
If you didn't do it,
why not come forward?
A black man running
from the bodies
of a white woman
and white child..
Would you?
What happened to you, Philip?
A student, honor society,
budding artist.
Then Toya Miles dies
and you end up here.
- At the bottom of the world.
- What happened that night?
Brought you to a place
you don't belong.
Leftovers.
They'd throw them out
at the pizza place.
I'd bring them over to
Toya,
from time to time.
That night, I went over.
Rosie's apartment door
was busted open.
What happened then?
I opened the bedroom door.
Who was in the bedroom?
Who was there, Philip?
(Philip)
No one.
Hospital says
I'm okay to go home.
I know.
But where's home?
I know why you were crying
at the butterfly play.
Because you tried
to stop Mr. Freely.
But you knew you couldn't.
'Cause men like him never stop.
No, they don't.
No one was there for you.
Not your dad
not Angel.
Just you.
So you did the only thing
you could.
I did?
(Rush)
'Is that why
you can't remember?'
The DA won't press charges
not after
what you've gone through.
What did I do?
(Rush)
'There's a place
for you to go.'
To heal.
Just for a little while,
Rosie..
...because you didn't mean
'what you did.'
What did I do?
Mama?
You just wait
for that knock
at the door, Rosie.
When you least expect it.
Mommy?
Yeah.
'Mommy?'
- Mommy?
- You sing. Sing, baby.
Sing.